Added Password Spraying Attack (#416)
OWASP/www-community: pages/attacks/Password_Spraying_Attack.md

---
layout: col-sidebar
title: Password Spraying Attack
author: Rishu Ranjan
contributors: 
permalink: /attacks/Password_Spraying_Attack
tags: attack, password spraying
---

{% include writers.html %}

## Description

> **Password spraying** is a type of brute force attack. In this attack, an attacker will brute force on list of usernames with default password on the application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Password spraying** is a type of brute force attack. In this attack, an attacker will brute force logins based on list of usernames with default passwords on the application. 
```

> For example, an attacker will user one password(say, Secure@123) against many different accounts on a application to avoid account lockouts that would normally occur when brute forcing a single account with many passwords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, an attacker will use one password (say, Secure@123) against many different accounts on a application to avoid account lockouts that would normally occur when brute forcing a single account with many passwords.
```

> This attack can be found commonly where the application or admin set default password for the new users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This attack can be found commonly where the application or admin sets a default password for the new users.
```

> ![psa](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51092706/116527869-c24b4280-a8f8-11eb-9023-edc0601d4504.png)

Reviewer: "psa" doesn't really describe the image. Also the image should be added to `assets/images` and referenced relatively. (Search the repo for other examples)

Author: done

## Mitigations
- Brute force preventation should be on both field, i.e., Username and Password.

> - Set account lockout policies after a certain number of failed login attempts to prevent credentials from being guessed. Go for catcha, if lockout is not option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set account lockout policies after a certain number of failed login attempts to prevent credentials from being guessed. Implement CAPTCHA, if lockout is not a viable option.
```

Reviewer: What about throttling or time delaying login attempts?

Author: again that can be bypassable with script having time delay or throttling on the login requests

Reviewer: Of course, but it requires more work on the attackers part. Can be s stepped backoff too. 5 fails > 1 min delay, 10 fails > 2 min delay, 15 fails > 4 min.

I dunno, I can see it both ways. Your call.

> - The admin managed application should force user to change password on first login with default password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The admin managed application should force users to change their password on first login with default password.
```

- Use multi-factor authentication. Where possible, also enable multi-factor authentication on externally facing services.

## Reference

> - https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1110/003/

Reviewer: Should add a relative link to the "Credential_stuffing" attack.

Reviewer: I actually meant this one:
https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Credential_stuffing
Which would be:
```md
- [Credential Stuffing](Credential_stuffing]
- ```

Reviewer: Keep the MS one too though, it's good to have.

Author: Credentials stuffing not related to this attack.

Reviewer: It's not the same but it is definitely related, and cross-linking related attacks is a good move.

Author: done
